Business Problem Framing
The authenticity of Information has become a longstanding issue affecting
businesses and society, both for printed and digital media. On social
networks, the reach and effects of information spread occur at such a fast
pace and so amplified that distorted, inaccurate or false information
acquires a tremendous potential to cause real world impacts, within
minutes, for millions of users. Recently, several public concerns about this
problem and some approaches to mitigate the problem were expressed. .
The sensationalism of not-so-accurate eye-catching and intriguing
headlines aimed at retaining the attention of audiences to sell information
has persisted all throughout the history of all kinds of information
broadcast. On social networking websites, the reach and effects of
information spread are however significantly amplified and occur at such a
fast pace that distorted, inaccurate or false information acquires a
tremendous potential to cause real impacts, within minutes, for millions of
users.

Fake news is defined as a made-up story with an intention to deceive or to
mislead. The rate of production of fake news has increased exponentially.
In the past news obtained from newspaper, radio or TV were considered as
the best and authentic source of information about the real world and
ongoing situations but now everything has changed. In the run of popularity
and ill mind set the media houses and social media are spreading fake
news. It’s becoming harder and harder to say whether a piece of news is
real or fabricated.The effect of fake news can be seen everywhere. The fake news leads to
communal disturbance, character assassination, mental trauma,
sometimes it is used as a weapon to achieve some illicit plans etc. these
are like wild fire which spread too quickly and difficult to control. Which
creates difficulty in differentiating between fake news and authentic news.

Motivation for the Problem Undertaken
The goal is to build a prototype to classify the news as fake or not fakes in
order to bring awareness and reduce unwanted chaos.
➔ To apply data preprocessing and preparation techniques in order to
obtain clean data.
➔ Explore the effectiveness of multiple machine learning approaches
and select the best for this problem.



Conclusion
Several Classification models are built to predict the
label of the news i.e. whether it is fake or not. The models are evaluated
and compared to determine the one with highest performance.
In this project, the data science process starting with getting the data, then
cleaning and preprocessing the data, followed by exploring the data and
building models, then evaluating the results and communicating them with
visualizations is followed. Thus, this is a Machine Learning Approach
combined with Natural Language Processing (NLP) for fake news
detection.
Finally, the Mean Validation Accuracy, so obtained, is 96.70%
